SOCIALISM IS A SCIENCE

Treatise Published in Rodong Sinmun, Organ of the Central Committee of the
Workers،¯ Party of Korea
November 1, 1994
Socialism is a science. Socialism has been frustrated in a number of countries, but
scientific socialism is as alive as ever in the minds of the people. The imperialists
and reactionaries are fussing about the ،°end of socialism،±, with regard to the
events in some countries which had been building socialism. The renegades of
socialism try to justify their despicable betrayal, claiming that the ideal of socialism
itself is invalid. However, the truth cannot be concealed or obliterated. The
crumbling of socialism in various countries does not mean the failure of socialism
as science but the bankruptcy of opportunism which has corrupted socialism.
Although socialism is temporarily experiencing a heart-rending setback because of
opportunism, it will without fail be revived and win ultimate victory for its
scientific accuracy and truth.
1
Socialism is the ideal and the revolutionary banner of the popular masses who are
fighting for independence. The masses achieve their independence by means of
socialism and communism.
The people،¯s independence was ruthlessly trampled upon in the hostile class
society. Where there is oppression, there will be resistance; where there is
resistance, revolution will break out. The popu?lar masses have vigorously
struggled to win their independence for a long time. During this, class societies
have changed and the struggle of the masses for independence has developed.
However, the only changes brought about when hostile class societies were
replaced, were in the forms of oppression of the popular masses،¯ indepen?dence;
the masses were not freed from social and political subordina?tion.
The failure to attain the masses،¯ independence in hostile class societies was
because all these societies were based on individual?ism. Individualism is the
product of private ownership. Society, based on private ownership and its product,
individualism, inevitably splits into hostile classes, produces class antagonism and
social inequality, and is accompanied by the exploitation and oppression of the
popular masses by a small ruling class. History shows that inde?pendence for the
masses cannot be realized in a society based on individualism. A historical review
of the development of human society proves that, in order to realize the masses،¯
independence, a society based on individualism must be replaced by a society based
on collectivism, by socialism and communism.
Capitalism has turned individualism into the unlimited greed of a handful of
capitalists; it has precipitated antagonism in the society of individualism to the
utmost. Meanwhile, the masses،¯ struggle for inde?pendence has entered a new
stage of development. Ours is an age of independence, when the popular masses
have emerged as masters of their own destiny, as masters who dominate the world.
This shows that the transition of a society based on individualism to a society based
on collectivism is an inevitable demand of historical development.
Collectivism is man،¯s intrinsic need. People can exist and develop only when they
work as a social collective. People can transform nature and society and meet their
desire for independence, not as individuals, but only through collective cooperation
among members of society. If people are to live in a social collective, they must
meet both their collective and individual demands for independence. The collective
demand for independence is the common requirement of members of society for the
existence and development of the social collective. The individual need for
independence is the need as an equal member of a social collective; it is the need
which should natu?rally be met through collective efforts in return for his
contribution to society. The individual need for independence fundamentally differs
from selfish greed, which ignores the collective and subordinates everything to the

interests of an individual. Both the collective and individual needs for independence
can be satisfied to the fullest only through collectivism. Individual demand divorced
from collectivism becomes selfish greed. Such greed encroaches upon the demands
of other members of the collective for independence, and hampers the unity and
cooperation of the collective. Collectivism alone makes it possible to strengthen the
unity and cooperation of the collective, to stimulate the creative zeal of all
collective members and to properly combine both the collective and individual
demands for indepen?dence and thus fully meet them. Because working in a social
collec?tive is the mode of man،¯s existence, and because man،¯s demand for
independence can be satisfied only through collectivism, society based on
collectivism, socialist and communist society, is the most progressive society which
conforms with man،¯s independent nature.
Certainly, collectivist principles are not fully applied in all spheres of social life
immediately after the establishment of a social?ist system, because in socialist
society the vestiges from the old soci?ety remain for some time. The survival in
socialist society of the remnants of the outmoded society is a passing phenomenon.
With the development of socialism, these vestiges are gradually overcome and
collectivist principles are implemented more fully in all areas of social life.
Although socialism is an inevitable stage of historical develop?ment and socialist
society is the most progressive one which con?forms with man،¯s independent
nature, socialism will never be real?ized spontaneously. In order to realize
socialism, we must prepare the revolutionary forces capable of doing this and
evolve a correct method of struggle. Unless the revolutionary forces and the method
of struggle are prepared, the desire for independence of the popular masses who
aspire after socialism will remain a mere wish.
The idea of eliminating exploitation, oppression and social inequality, as well as the
private ownership on which these are based, and of setting up an equal society
based on public ownership, was put forward by Utopian socialists a long time ago.
However, the Utopian socialists, despite their sympathy for the misery of the
exploited working masses, failed to see them as the revolutionary force capable of
burying the exploitative society and building a new society. They considered that
the irrational aspects of capitalist soci?ety could be corrected by enlightening
people and appealing to the ،°good will،± of the exploiter class. It is an unscientific
illusion to expect ،°good will،± from the exploiter class, whose nature is greed. The
Utopian socialists،¯ expectation of ،°good will،± from the exploiter class was their
historical limitation.
The exploiter class and their stooges put forward the ،°theory of class
cooperation،± and tried to block the struggle of the exploited working masses
against exploitation and oppression. Within the communist movement, reformists
and revisionists demanded ،°class cooperation،± and seriously harmed the
revolutionary movement. Today, traitors to socialism are also clamouring for a
return to capi?talism, harbouring illusions about capitalism and expecting ،°aid،±
and ،°cooperation،± from the imperialists. History shows that to expect ،°good
will،± or ،°class cooperation،± from the exploiter class is to make a mess of the
revolution.
Marxism combined the demands of working people who aspire to socialism, with
revolutionary forces and a revolutionary fighting method. Marxism made clear that
contradictions existed between the productive forces and relations of production in
capitalist society; that these contradictions could be resolved through the class
struggle of the exploited working people against the exploiter class; and that the
working class would take charge of and lead this class struggle. Thanks to Marxism,
the inevitability of the collapse of capitalism and the victory of socialism was
proved, and the demands of exploit?ed working people who aspire to socialism
were linked with practical revolutionary forces and a revolutionary fighting method
capable of meeting their demands. Socialism was thus converted from a Utopian
scheme into a science, and a revolutionary change took place in the history of
humanity،¯s struggle for liberation.
However, the theory of socialism in the preceding age, based on a materialist
outlook on history, was not free from historical limita?tions. This theory did not
regard the social and historical movement as a movement of the motive force, as a

movement which begins and develops on the initiative and through the role of the
popular masses, its motive force, but as a natural historical process which changes
and develops due to material and economic factors. According to the materialist
outlook on history, the more the productive forces devel?op in a capitalist society,
the more intensive the incompatible contra?dictions between the productive forces
and relations of production and the antagonism between the exploiter class and the
exploited class grow, the more the working class and other revolutionary forces
develop in strength and, accordingly, the more the revolution matures. Seeing
material and economic factors as fundamental in the revolutionary struggle, the
preceding theory of socialism failed to raise the task of strengthening the motive
force of the revolution and enhancing its role as the basic way to carry out the
revolution.
As for the influence exerted by the development of productive forces in capitalist
society, we must not approach it from only one side. The development of the
productive forces in capitalist society intensifies the bipolar differentiation which
results from the increas?ing imbalance between rich and poor. It sharpens class
contradic?tions, while at the same time, it provides the monopolists with increasing
possibilities to spend part of their high profits on soothing class contradictions. In
addition, the development of the productive forces results in the expansion of the
ranks of industrial workers by their incorporation of peasants and other petit
bourgeois classes, and also in an increased proportion of workers engaged in mental
and technical labour in the productive sectors, as well as those in non?productive
sectors.
Of course, objective conditions have a great influence on the rev?olutionary
struggle. But the decisive factor in the victory of the revo?lution lies not in
objective conditions, but in how to strengthen the motive force of the revolution and
how to raise its role. Whether in a developed capitalist country or an
underdeveloped one, socialism can emerge victorious if the motive force of the
revolution is strength?ened and its role enhanced through efficient work. History
shows that socialism first triumphed in relatively backward countries, not in the
countries where capitalism had developed. The experience of our revolution, which
has advanced under the banner of the Juche idea, shows that if we strengthen the
motive force of the revolution and enhance its role, we can not only avail ourselves
of the given objec?tive conditions but also turn unfavourable objective conditions
into favourable ones and ensure the victory of the revolution by turning a
misfortune into a blessing.
The limitations of the preceding theory based on the materialist outlook on history
have been revealed more clearly in the course of socialist construction since the
establishment of the socialist system.
In general, the more a society develops, the greater the role played by the popular
masses, the driving force of social movement, becomes. This is because their
independent consciousness and cre?ative ability increase with the development of
society. The role of the popular masses as the driving force of social movement is
raised to an unprecedented level in socialist society. Socialist society develops
thanks to the creative power of the popular masses, who are armed with a high level
of consciousness and are united as one. In socialist society, the transformation of
man, his ideological remoulding, becomes a more important and primary task than
that of creating the material and economic conditions of socialism. Only when
prece?dence is given to the transformation of man, will it be possible to strengthen
the driving force of the revolution and increase its role, and thus build socialism
successfully. If the ideological remoulding of the popular masses is regarded as a
matter of secondary impor?tance and the work of strengthening the driving force of
the revolu?tion and enhancing its role is neglected in socialist society, while
attaching decisive importance to the objective material and economic conditions
and concentrating only on economic construction, the building of socialism as a
whole cannot be carried out properly and economic construction itself cannot avoid
stagnation. These practices were very apparent in some countries which had been
building socialism in the past. Taking advantage of this, the renegades of socialism
carried out ،°reforms،± and committed counterrevolutionary acts, destroying the
socialist economic system itself.

In the past, the founders of Marxism evolved socialist theory by putting the main
stress on material and economic conditions. This is to do with the fact that it was
regarded as an important historical task to disprove the bourgeois reactionary theory
which consecrated capi?talism and preached its ،°eternity،±, while maintaining
mysticism and fatalism. But now, the renegades of socialism are advocating the
material-is-almighty doctrine and the economy-is-almighty doctrine in order to
restore capitalism, of which they harbour illusions.
Putting socialism on a new, scientific basis was regarded as a very urgent task, not
only to overcome the historical limitations of the preceding theory of socialism, but
also to defend socialism against all kinds of opportunist distortions and imperialist
attacks.
The historical task of putting socialism on a new scientific basis was successfully
solved by the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung, who created the Juche idea and,
on this basis, evolved an original socialist theory. The respected Comrade Kim Il
Sung discovered the philosophical principle that man is the master of everything
and decides everything. He explained a new law which governs social movement,
the movement of the motive force, and he thus put social?ism on a new, scientific
basis. The socialist and communist cause as clarified by the Juche idea is the cause
of the popular masses for their complete independence. Socialism as scientifically
systematized by the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung is man-centred socialism
and socialism centred on the masses. Ours is a socialism where the popu?lar masses
are the masters of everything, where everything serves them, and which is
developing through their united efforts. The Juche-orientated theory of socialism
scientifically clarified the essence of socialism and the law governing its
development, by plac?ing man at the centre. On this basis, the theory explained that
if the building of socialism is to succeed, a vigorous struggle must be waged to
occupy the two fortresses of socialism and communism, the ideological and
material fortresses, and that here, absolute prece?dence must be given to the
struggle to take the ideological fortress.
The scientific accuracy and truth of the Juche-orientated theory of socialism have
been proved by the practical experience of our revo?lution. Our people began to
wage the struggle for socialism in the backward circumstances of a colonial semifeudal society. They had to carry out the revolution and construction under
unusually difficult circumstances. Despite this, our Party could successfully blaze
the trail for socialism by constantly making its main task that of firmly uniting the
popular masses around the Party and the leader, organiza?tionally and ideologically,
as required by the Juche idea, thus strengthening the driving force of the revolution
and enhancing its role. Our Party is increasing the political and ideological might of
our revolution in every possible way by giving definite priority to the
transformation of man, to ideological remoulding, in all work in the building of
socialism, while at the same time, strengthening our self-reliant national economy
and defence. As a result, it is vigorously advancing the revolution and construction
without vacillation, even under the present complex circumstances. Practical
experience clear?ly shows that our socialism, the embodiment of the Juche idea, is
the most scientific and viable socialism.

2
Our socialism is based on the Juche-orientated view of and attitude to man.
The view of and attitude to man are the basic questions concern?ing what view and
attitude one has in one،¯s understanding of the development of society and the
revolution. They constitute the stan?dard for the scientific character and validity of
ideas and theories, and of lines and policies. The scientific character and truth of
our socialism lies in the fact that it is based on the absolutely correct, Jucheorientated view of and attitude to man.
The Juche idea has given a scientific definition of man،¯s essential qualities, for the
first time in history.
Understanding man،¯s essential qualities is not merely a matter of science but a

socio-political issue which reflects class interests. Throughout history, serious
philosophical arguments have taken place on this issue between progressive and
reactionary classes.
The reactionary ruling classes and their mouthpieces distorted man،¯s essential
qualities in the interests of the exploiting class in order to justify their exploitative
society. Philosophical arguments on man،¯s essential qualities formerly boiled
down to two dominant views; one regarded man as a spiritual being and the other
consid?ered him a material being. According to the religious, idealist view, which
regards man as a purely spiritual being, man is a product of a certain supernatural,
mysterious being and his destiny is also decided by the latter. By means of their
religious, idealist view of man, the reactionary ruling class and its spokesmen
preached that the miser?able lot of the working masses who suffered exploitation
and oppres?sion was their unavoidable fate and therefore, they had to submit to
their predestined lot. The view which regards man as simply a natu?ral, biological
being makes it impossible to understand the qualitative difference between man,
who acts purposefully and consciously under the regulation and control of
consciousness, and a biological being which is governed by instinct. The
reactionary ruling class and its spokesmen used this view to justify capitalist
society, which is ruled by the law of the jungle. Having recourse to the reactionary
viewpoint and attitude towards man, the renegades of socialism are restoring
capitalism through the introduction of bourgeois liberalism and the capitalist market
economy.
Man is neither a purely spiritual being nor a simple biological being. Man is a social
being who lives and acts in social relation?ships. The fact that man is a social being
is the major quality which distinguishes him from other biological beings.
Marxism defined man،¯s essential quality as the ensemble of social relations. This
definition rendered a historic service by shattering the unscientific, reactionary view
which regarded man as a purely spiri?tual being or a simple biological being.
However, the definition of man،¯s essential quality as the sum total of social
relations does not provide a comprehensive elucidation of man،¯s own essential
quali?ties. Consequently, it cannot correctly explain the relations between man and
the world, or the position and role of man in the world.
The Juche idea has, for the first time, found a scientific solution to the question of
man،¯s own essential qualities. On this basis, it has thrown a new light on his
position and role in the world.
In the past, too, many attempts were made to elucidate man،¯s essential qualities by
dealing mainly with his own features, for exam?ple, attempts to define man as a
speaking, working, or thinking being. These attempts, however, all dealt with some
aspects of man،¯s actions, which are the expression of his essential qualities.
Man is a social being with independence, creativity and con?sciousness. Herein lie
his essential qualities.
Independence is an attribute of social man, who wants to live and develop
independently as the master of the world and his destiny, free from any fetters or
restrictions. Creativity is an attribute of social man, who transforms the world and
shapes his destiny purposefully and consciously in order to meet his needs.
Consciousness is social man،¯s attribute. It regulates all his activities for
understanding and transforming the world and himself. Independence and creativity
are ensured by consciousness. Man is distinguished qualitatively from animals,
which act instinctively, in that he conducts independent and creative activities with
consciousness. The course of man،¯s activities is the process whereby he expresses
his independence, creativity and consciousness. Independent, creative and
conscious activities consti?tute man،¯s mode of existence.
Man as a social being with independence, creativity and con?sciousness is
inconceivable outside his developed organism, espe?cially his highly developed
brain. His developed organism is the bio?logical basis of his independence,
creativity and consciousness. However, the organism itself does not give birth to
independence, creativity or consciousness. Man،¯s independence, creativity and
con?sciousness are social attributes which are formed and developed through a
socio-historical process, where he acts in social relation?ships.
Because he has independence, creativity and consciousness, man can shape his

destiny through his own efforts. The fate of a biologi?cal being depends on how it
adapts itself to its objective environ?ment. A biological being is a part of nature and
its fate is decided by objective environments, so to speak. Unlike biological beings,
man is the master and transformer of the world. He shapes his destiny on his own,
by transforming the objective world to meet his needs. With the development of his
independence, creativity and consciousness, man،¯s position and role as the master
and transformer of the world are strengthened. This is expressed in his
transformation of nature and society. As man،¯s independent ideological
consciousness and creative ability develop and his role increases, social wealth
increas?es and social relations improve. In historical development, each gen?eration
starts with the social wealth and social relations created by its predecessors, in other
words, with the existing objective conditions, and uses these. These objective
conditions have an important effect on social development, but these conditions
themselves are the his?torical product of man،¯s independent, creative and
conscious activi?ties. They are also used and developed by man. Favourable as the
existing objective conditions may be, if the independence, creativity and
consciousness of man, who exploits and develops these condi?tions, are not high
and brought into full play, society cannot develop quickly. Even if objective
conditions are disadvantageous, society can rapidly develop when man،¯s
independence, creativity and con?sciousness are high and put into full effect. This
means that the his?torical process of social development is decided by the level of
development and of mobilization of man،¯s independence, creativity and
consciousness. For a long time, the exploited working masses wanted to live in an
equitable, new society free from exploitation and oppression, but they could not
fulfil their desire in the past because their independent ideological consciousness
and creative ability were not high and their role was at a low level. Man transforms
nature and society and develops history. With the rapid development of his
independent ideological consciousness and the enhancement of his role, the
development of society and history is promoted and the rev?olution and
construction are successfully speeded up. The history of social development is, in
the long run, the history of the development of man،¯s independence, creativity and
consciousness, so to speak.
Because he is independent, creative and conscious, man is the most precious and
powerful being. Man is the only master and remaker of the world. Nothing in the
world is more precious or pow?erful than man.
However, bourgeois reactionaries do not regard man as the most precious being, but
as a means for material production and an insignificant being who possesses only
labour power, which is bought and sold as a commodity. They also consider him a
powerless being dominated by money, not as a powerful being who shapes his
destiny through his own efforts. The betrayers of socialism are restoring capitalism
and eliminating all the popular policies estab?lished by socialism. They regard
unemployment and poverty as means for pressurizing people, in order to force them
to compete, and in order to increase labour intensity. They grovel at the feet of
imperialists, expecting ،°aid،± and ،°cooperation،± from Western capi?talist
countries, instead of believing in the strength of their people. All this is due to their
reactionary bourgeois view of man.
Man-centred socialism is based on Juche-orientated socio-historical principles,
which provided a new, scientific clarification of the law of socio-historical
development, by focusing on man. Socialism centred on man is the most scientific
socialism. It makes everything serve man and solves every problem by enhancing
his creative role, based on the Juche-orientated view of and attitude to man. Our
socialism champions and thoroughly ensures man،¯s independence, and quickly
improves and gives full play to his ideological con?sciousness and creative ability
in order to strengthen, as never before, the position and role of man as the master
and transformer of the world, and to press on with the revolution and construction.
The Juche idea also newly clarified the essence and the value of man،¯s life.
When man is regarded as an organic body, his life means a physi?cal life. However,
he is not a being who only leads a physical life. The Juche idea indicated, for the
first time in history, that a man has socio-political integrity, as well as a physical
life. Physical life is a man،¯s life as an organic body, whereas socio-political

integrity is a man،¯s life as a social being. Socio-political integrity is the life which
is unique to man as a social being.
For a man, physical life is valuable. Only when he has a physical life, can he
acquire socio-political integrity. In this sense, we can say that the material life
which implements the demand for physical life is the life which implements his
primary needs. As man is a social being who is different from a simple biological
being, his demand for material life constantly increases as his independence,
creativity and consciousness develop and as society develops. His material life
affects his socio-political integrity. A stable and sound material life fully guarantees
his demand for physical life, and at the same time, it constitutes a material
guarantee for the maintenance and develop?ment of his socio-political integrity.
For a man, physical life is precious, but his socio-political integri?ty is more
precious. It is the intrinsic need of man as a social being to value his socio-political
integrity more than his physical life. If a man only seeks to satisfy his demand for
physical life, and not his demand for a socio-political life, his life can never be an
honourable one, no matter how affluent he is. Such a material life will be reduced to
a deformed and abnormal life, no better than an animal life, and will run counter to
man،¯s intrinsic nature.
Independence is the life and soul of man. Man, an independent social being, desires
to live independently, free from any subordina?tion or shackles. The fact that man
lives independently means that he lives as the master of the world and of his own
destiny, maintaining his position and exercising his rights as such: Only when man
lives as a social being, exercising his right to independence and imple?menting his
demand for independence, can he be said to enjoy a dig?nified life, maintaining
socio-political integrity. If he loses his inde?pendence and is subordinated to others,
he is as good as dead socially and politically, even though he is alive. Man،¯s
desire to live indepen?dently is realized, first of all, through an independent
political life. When man is subordinated socially and politically, he cannot lead any
kind of independent life.
As socio-political integrity is man،¯s most precious life, a noble life for him is to
maintain and exalt socio-political integrity. Man receives socio-political integrity
from the social collective. The social collective is the parent body of man،¯s sociopolitical integrity. Therefore, the worth of man،¯s life depends on how he is
connected with the social collective. Man،¯s life becomes noble when he is loved
and trusted by the social collective; it is worthless when he is forsak?en by it. Man
enjoys the love and trust of the social collective when he considers the interests of
the social collective to be dearer than those of individuals and when he faithfully
serves the social collec?tive. In the final analysis, the greatest value and worth of
man،¯s life is to lead an independent and creative life, enjoying the love and trust
of the social collective, while at the same time combining his own destiny with that
of the social collective and serving it heart and soul. This is the way for man to
enhance his socio-political integrity and lead a worthy human life as a social being.
Today, the bourgeois reactionaries and renegades of socialism regard the
exploitation and domination of man by man as something normal and consider man
as a base being who only pursues his own material desires. This clearly
demonstrates the reactionary nature of the bourgeois viewpoint and attitude towards
the essence and worth of man،¯s life.
True human life, which enables everyone to enhance their most precious sociopolitical integrity and fully meet the demands of their physical life, can only be
realized admirably in a socialist society based on collectivism. In this society,
people are free from all man?ner of exploitation and oppression, domination and
subordination and can lead an independent and creative life in social, political and
all other areas. In socialist society, we must organize people،¯s orga?nizational and
ideological life properly, as well as their cultural life, in order to enable them to lead
an independent and creative life, with a high consciousness and an ability which
befits the masters of soci?ety. People can make great contributions to society and
the collective and lead a worthy life as proud members of society and the
collec?tive, only when they are fully equipped with an independent con?sciousness
and have comprehensively developed creative ability, through their revolutionary
organizational and ideological life and their moral and rich cultural life.

Our socialism is genuinely man-centred socialism. It regards man as most precious
and fully meets his intrinsic requirements. It thus enables everyone to keep and
greatly enhance their socio-political integrity. It also fully meets the demands of
their physical life. Man-centred social?ism enables all members of society to live in
harmony, enjoying the love and trust of society and the collective, and to lead a
completely noble and worthy life, while working devotedly for society and the
col?lective with a high degree of consciousness and creative ability.

3
Our socialism is based on the Juche-orientated view of and attitude towards the
masses of the people.
The truth and advantages of socialism are demonstrated in the people،¯s support of
and trust in it. Now that our socialism is based on the Juche-orientated view of and
attitude towards the masses of the people, it has become the most advantageous and
powerful socialism and enjoys the people،¯s absolute support and trust.
The masses of the people are the motive force of history. The masses of the people
means a united social community which centres on working people, due to their
common demand for independence and creative activity.
The phrase ،°the masses of the people،± assumes a class charac?ter in class society.
An exploiter society is divided into the exploiter class and the exploited class, or the
ruling class and the ruled class, depending on who owns the means of production
and who controls state power. The exploited class, the ruled class, forms the
majority of the masses of the people. The class structure of the masses of the people
is not immutable. It changes as social history develops. In capitalist society, not
only workers and peas?ants, but also working intellectuals and many other classes
and strata which champion and struggle for independence, form the masses of the
people. In socialist society, all people are trans?formed into socialist working
people, so everyone is a member of the masses of the people. Of course, in socialist
society, too, the manoeuvres of minor hostile elements continue and traitors may
appear in the revolutionary ranks. Therefore, it is also necessary in socialist society
to clearly distinguish between the masses of the people and elements hostile to
them.
The phrase ،°the masses of the people،± reflects a social and class relationship, but
it is not merely a class concept. Naturally, the mass?es of the people consist of
different classes and strata. In order to dis?tinguish whether one is a member of the
masses of the people or not, his social and class status should be considered, but this
must not be regarded as absolute. Man،¯s ideas and behaviour are not subject
sole?ly to the influence of his social and class status. If he undergoes revolutionary
influence and acquires progressive ideas, he can serve the masses of the people
regardless of his social and class status. The basic criterion for deciding whether
one is a member of the masses of the people or not is not one،¯s social and class
origin, but one،¯s ideas. The ideological foundation on which to unite people from
all walks of life into the masses of the people is not just the idea of socialism and
communism. Anyone who loves the country, the people and the nation can serve the
people and accordingly, is qualified to be a member of the masses of the people.
From such a point of view, at every stage of the revolution, the great leader
Comrade Kim Il Sung united everyone who was ideolog?ically ready to serve the
fatherland, the people and the nation into one revolutionary force, and he
successfully carried out the revolu?tion and construction. Our Party trusts people of
different classes and strata who are interested in the revolution. It considers them
everlast?ing companions, not chance fellow travellers, on the road to revolu?tion,
and it is leading them along the road to socialism and commu?nism.
The class nature of the imperialists and reactionaries makes them antagonistic to the
masses of the people. Accordingly, they are afraid of the word ،°people،± itself.
Frequently using the word ،°nation،±, they try to cover the class confrontation and

conflict of capitalist society. The traitors to socialism also try to disguise their antipopular manoeuvres with the word ،°citizen،±. They purport to be building a
،°society for citizens،±. It is true that one can often hear reactionaries and traitors
hypocritically using the word ،°people،±. But those hostile to the people, the
betrayers of the people, cannot hide their anti-pop?ular nature, just because they use
the word ،°people،±. ،°People،± is a noble word that only those who are faithful to
the people, can say proudly, the communists who fight and devote themselves
wholly to the interests of the masses of the people.
The great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung regarded the people as ،°Heaven،±, since
his youth. He ensured that the country, the army, monuments and many noble and
beautiful things in the country were named after the people. Because our socialism
regards the people as such valuable beings, it has become a socialism centred on the
mass?es, the most advantageous socialism which fully embodies the demand of the
people for independence.
The masses of the people are the masters of everything in society. This is because
everything in society is created by the masses of the people.
The popular masses possess the greatest creative power for trans?forming nature
and society. An individual،¯s strength and wisdom are limited, but those of the
popular masses are unlimited. If there is an omniscient and omnipotent being in this
world, it is none other than the popular masses. By drawing on their unfathomable
strength and wisdom, the masses create everything in society, they advance histo?ry
and drive the revolution forward.
The popular masses transform nature, develop the productive forces and create
material wealth. Of course, the capitalist class takes an interest in developing the
productive forces in order to gain more profit, but capitalists do not create material
wealth with their own hands. The masses create ideological and cultural wealth
directly, and also produce progressive thinkers, prominent scientists and tal?ented
men of art and literature. The exploiter class also put forward their own ideological
and cultural mouthpieces, but the ideas and culture they produce obstruct a moral
social life and development. The masses transform society. The reactionary
exploiter class is only interested in maintaining and consolidating the outmoded
exploita?tive system, not in social transformation. The farce of ،°reform،± staged
by the ruling bourgeoisie is essentially aimed at extricating themselves from the
crisis of capitalism. Social transformation on progressive lines can only be carried
out by the awakened and united popular masses. Since everything in society is
created by the masses, they must naturally be the masters of everything. Only in
socialist society, where state power and the means of production belong to the
people, can the masses be the real masters of everything in society.

Since they are the masters of everything in society, the popular masses must occupy
the position of masters. They must exercise their rights, fulfil their responsibility
and role as masters, and enjoy a worthy and happy life as masters.
As they are the masters of everything in society, the popular masses must hold the
position of masters and exercise their rights as such.
The popular masses،¯ desire for independence is to occupy the position of masters
and exercise their rights as such. Independence is the lifeblood of the masses, and
their independent status and right to independence are the basic conditions on which
their destiny depends. As they are the masters of state and society, the popular
masses must occupy the position of masters and exercise their rights as such in
politics, the economy, culture and in all other fields of social life.
In order to thoroughly champion and implement the popular masses،¯
independence, it is necessary to formulate all lines and poli?cies by making them
reflect the masses،¯ desire for independence and carrying them out in reliance on
the efforts of the masses.
The popular masses،¯ desire for independence is the criterion for judging the
correctness of lines and policies. The only way to avoid subjectivism and tortuous

events in the revolution and construction is to mix with the masses and listen to
what they want. The masses are teachers of everything. The masses،¯ desire for
independence, when integrated into a system, will become ideas, lines and policies.
When formulating its lines and policies, the working-class party must always go
among the masses and listen to their desires. In doing their work, officials must also
begin by listening to the masses،¯ desires. Even in complex and difficult
circumstances, our Party has been able to establish the best socialist system and
develop it continuously, because it has laid down its lines and policies by going
among the masses. It is also because it reflected the masses،¯ desire for
indepen?dence in its policies and carried these out by relying on their efforts. This
is the secret of the triumphant advance of socialism in our coun?try, an advance
which has been made along an absolutely scientific path, without the slightest
deviation or setback.
In order to champion and realize independence for the popular masses, we must
totally safeguard the independence of the country and nation.
Our Party،¯s consistent revolutionary principle is to achieve inde?pendence in
politics, self-sufficiency in the economy and self-reliance in national defence. Our
Party and our people have treasured the independence of the country and nation.
They have thoroughly implemented the revolutionary principle of political
independence, economic self-sufficiency and self-reliant national defence despite
the pressure of the imperialists and dominationists. They have thus firmly
safeguarded national sovereignty and dignity and continue to advance. They
consistently adhere to their convictions and hold the socialist banner high.
The imperialists now violently interfere in other countries،¯ affairs and trample
upon other nations،¯ sovereignty. They try to justify these acts under the excuse of
،°defence of human rights،±. Human rights cannot be conceived separately from
the independence of countries and nations. Human rights can never be ensured for
people who are dominated by foreign forces. Human rights are rights to
indepen?dence which must be exercised by the people in the political, eco?nomic,
ideological, cultural and all other spheres of social life. The ،°human rights،±
advertised by the imperialists are privileges of the rich, privileges to do anything on
the strength of money. The imperi?alists do not recognize the right of unemployed
people to work, or the right of orphans or people without support to eat and survive,
for instance, as human rights. As they do not grant working people ele?mentary
rights to existence and as they pursue anti-popular policies and policies of racial and
national discrimination and colonialism, the imperialists have no right to speak
about human rights. The impe?rialists are the most heinous enemy of human rights.
They violate the people،¯s right to independence and interfere in the internal affairs
of other countries on the pretext of ،°defending human rights،±. We will never
tolerate any imperialist interference or arbitrariness aimed at infringing upon the
sovereignty of our country and nation, which we will staunchly safeguard.
The popular masses, as the masters of everything in society, should fulfil their role
and responsibilities.
Only then can they defend their position and rights as befitting masters. The
revolution and construction are undertakings for the popular masses and are their
own undertakings. They must be responsible for and must solve all problems arising
in the revolution and construction through their own efforts.
In order to make the popular masses fulfil their responsibility and role as masters of
everything in society, their consciousness as mas?ters should be enhanced. To this
end, priority should be given to ide?ological transformation and political work, over
all other undertak?ings. This is an intrinsic requirement of socialist society. In
socialist society, where the popular masses are the masters of state and soci?ety, the
main driving force of social development is the high revolu?tionary enthusiasm and
creative initiative of the masses, who are equipped with independent ideological
consciousness and who are united rock-firm behind the Party and the leader. It is
only when all members of society are transformed in a communist way and their
revolutionary zeal and creative initiative are boosted by giving prior?ity to
ideological transformation and political work, that they can press on with the
revolution and construction and fully demonstrate the advantages of socialism. In
socialist construction, therefore, efforts must always be concentrated on educating

the masses of the people and on boosting their revolutionary enthusiasm and
creative activeness, by giving priority to ideological transformation and polit?ical
work. There is no other master-stroke for propelling socialist construction than that
of giving priority to ideological transformation and political work, in order to
enhance the role of the masses. Trying to move a man by means of money
contradicts the intrinsic nature of socialist society; the advantages of socialism
cannot be demonstrated by that method. Such a capitalist method cannot enhance
the peo?ple،¯s revolutionary enthusiasm or creative initiative and, worse still, it
may degenerate the socialist system itself and throw it into jeop?ardy. By giving
definite priority to ideological transformation and political work, our Party could
dynamically advance the revolution and construction and display the advantages of
socialism to the full, relying on the masses،¯ great revolutionary enthusiasm and
creative initiative. The high revolutionary zeal and creative initiative of the popular
masses, who are united firmly behind the Party and the lead?er, is the source of the
strength on which our socialism centred on the masses can demonstrate its
advantages and invincibility as the most scientific socialism.
In order to make the masses of the people fulfil their responsibili?ty and role as the
masters of everything in society, their creative strength should be cultivated. This is
an important matter to which primary attention should always be given in the
revolution and con?struction. As the popular masses create everything in society,
the success of the revolution and construction depends on how to train the people
into powerful beings. Training them into powerful beings means developing their
creative ability along with their independent consciousness. In capitalist society, the
popular masses،¯ demand to boundlessly develop as independent and creative
beings cannot be realized properly. The imperialists and capitalists need slaves who
produce surplus value and follow them obediently, not independent and creative
people who have been brought to their independent con?sciousness and who are
developed in many ways. That is why they resort to every possible means and
method to degrade working peo?ple into slaves of capital, degenerating them
ideologically and deforming their creative ability. The popular masses،¯ demand to
develop into independent and creative beings can be fully realized only in socialist
society. Our Party has established the most superior socialist education system and
a system under which the entire popu?lation studies. It is running these at the
expense of the state and soci?ety, and is thus brilliantly carrying out the task of
bringing up all members of society as full-fledged builders of socialism and
commu?nism. As a result, our people are pressing on with socialist construction and
they are solving every problem through their own efforts and wisdom under the
banner of self-reliance even in an extremely difficult situation.
The masses of the people must enjoy a worthwhile and happy life as the masters of
everything in society.
Material life occupies an important place in their worthwhile and happy life. It
forms the basis of social life. As they are the masters of state and society in socialist
society, the masses of the people should lead an affluent and civilized life. By
stepping up economic con?struction, our Party has consolidated and developed the
socialist eco?nomic system and built a powerful socialist and independent national
economy. It has thereby laid solid foundations for satisfying the peo?ple،¯s
material life through our own efforts. The potential of the inde?pendent national
economy we have built up through self-reliance and fortitude is quite enormous; it
is a valuable asset for providing a moral and stable material life for everyone. We
must continuously invest great effort into the construction of the socialist economy,
in order to further strengthen the country،¯s economic power and steadi?ly improve
our people،¯s standard of material life according to social?ist demands.
What is essential for the masses in their worthwhile, happy life is to lead a dignified
life, while adding lustre to their socio-political integrity and enjoying the love and
trust of the social community.
Naturally, the people need to live such a life, but this is impossi?ble in the exploiter
society. The exploitation and oppression of man by man is incompatible with love
for and trust in the people; there cannot be genuine love and trust between the
exploiter and the exploited. In capitalist society, the personal value of man has been
converted into an exchange value،¯ and is appraised by means of money and

wealth. Here, love for and trust in the masses is incon?ceivable. The bourgeois
reactionaries،¯ advocacy of love which tran?scends class is a crafty act to disguise
the reactionary nature of the capitalist exploiting society and to pacify
contradictions between classes. The preceding theory of the working class laid bare
the reactionary nature of the hypocritical love which transcends class, advo?cated
by the bourgeois reactionaries. It made clear that, in class soci?ety, love also
assumes a class character. The fact that love assumes a class character does not
mean that love and trust can be exchanged only between people of identical social
and class status. The relation?ship of love and trust between people can be
established between those who, despite the difference in their social and class
status, fight together to defend the independence of the popular masses and who
carry out creative activities together.
When the socialist system is established, class contradictions are eliminated and
relationships between people are transformed from those of contradictions and
mistrust into those of love and trust. In socialist society, love and trust flourish in
the social community and between its members and among the individuals in
society; they are demonstrated in the most sublime form between the leader and his
men. When all members of society proudly maintain their socio?political integrity
with the result that the leader and his men, and the Party and the people are all tied
by love and trust and the whole of society has been transformed into a sociopolitical organism, their life is the most worthwhile and beautiful life. The society
that has realized this is a most solid and dynamic society.
Socialism centred on the masses fully embodies comradely unity and cooperation
and the relationship of love and trust in all spheres of social life. It transforms
politics into politics of love and trust. Love and trust constitute the essence of
politics in socialist society, where the masses of the people have been transformed
from objects of politics to the masters of politics. We call the politics of love and
trust, benevolent politics. Although the imperialists embellish bour?geois politics
and sling mud at socialist politics, clamouring about things like the ،°multi-party
system،± and ،°parliamentary democracy،±, black cannot be made white.
Bourgeois politics, as a plutocracy, are the harsh and crafty politics of oppression
and plunder.
In order to realize genuinely benevolent politics in socialist soci?ety, a political
leader who unfailingly loves the people must come forward. A political leader of
socialism should be a master in leader?ship but, first of all, he must be a man of
virtue who loves the people boundlessly. This is simply because socialist politics is,
in essence, benevolent politics. An incompetent political leader of socialism may
bring about a delay in the development of socialist society, but one who has no
virtue may betray the people and even lead socialism to ruin.
If the politics of love and trust are to be exercised in socialist society, the socialist
party in power must be built into a motherly party.
The working-class party is the leading political organization of society; accordingly,
the way the state organs and all other organiza?tions in socialist society serve the
people relates to how the party is built. Building the party as a motherly party is a
prerequisite for making state organs and all other organizations in socialist society
into servants of the people. Building the party as a motherly party means that the
party should become a genuine guide and defender of the people, which takes
meticulous care of the destiny of the popular masses under its charge, just as a
mother deeply loves her children and looks after them warmly. In the past, the party
was regarded mainly as a weapon in the class struggle. The working-class party
should naturally wage class struggle; however, all Party activities must, to all
intents and purposes, proceed from a boundless love for and trust in the people. It
must give priority to defending the people،¯s interests and it must fight against
those who violate their interests. Not a few parties lost the support and trust of the
popular masses and came to an end in the long run. This is because they were not
built as motherly parties which take warm care of the destiny of the people under
their charge. They degenerated into bureaucratic parties which wielded power and
abused their authority.
If the socialist ruling party is to be built as a motherly party, all cadres and party
members should be educated in the spirit of bound?less love and sincere service for

the people.
In order to sincerely serve the people, one must first think of the people before
oneself and regard the pleasure and pain of the people as one،¯s own. Loyal service
to the people is a communist،¯s sacred duty. Herein lies the true value of
communist،¯s life. A man who works for the revolution enters the working-class
party not for his self-interest, fame or authority, but to serve the people more
faithful?ly. Those who undergo hardship before anybody else, and put it before
pleasure, and who take charge of difficult tasks on their own, while giving credit for
success to others?they are the true commu?nists and members of the working-class
party. In order to bring up those party members, ideological education should be
intensified among them so that they serve the people devotedly.
It is important while building the socialist ruling party as a moth?erly party to
thoroughly transform the cadres in a revolutionary fash?ion and to actively struggle
against the abuse of power, bureaucracy, irregularities and corruption among them,
which are the main factors that obstruct the implementation of benevolent politics
in socialist society. Socialism is opposed to all privileges. With the establish?ment
of the socialist system, the privileged class disappears. As long as the people
possess state power and the means of production, the privileged class cannot come
into being in socialist society. But if a struggle is not waged against the abuse of
power, bureaucracy, irreg?ularities and corruption in socialist society, some illprepared cadres can deteriorate ideologically and become divorced from the masses,
and thus grow into a privileged class. However good the policies pur?sued by the
party and state may be, they cannot be carried out prop?erly if the cadres resort to
abuse of power and to bureaucracy, because all policies of the party and state are
implemented through the cadres. If the cadres exercise privileged power, act
bureaucratically and indulge in irregularities and corruption, the socialist party in
power will lose the support and confidence of the masses and, without their support,
the party cannot maintain its existence. The historical lesson shows that it is
tantamount to digging its own grave for the socialist ruling party to tolerate the
abuse of power, bureau?cracy, irregularities or corruption among the cadres.
Our Party saw through the danger of the deviations that could manifest themselves
in a ruling party early on, and it has tirelessly struggled against them. Under the
Party،¯s slogan, ،°We serve the peo?ple!،±, our cadres are now faithfully serving
the people as their ser?vants. But we cannot in the least neglect struggle against the
abuse of power, bureaucracy, irregularities and corruption, because they are rooted
in the vestiges of outdated ideas, and because the imperialists continue their
schemes of ideological and cultural infiltration in order to implant anachronistic
ideas in our country. We should con?tinue to vigorously wage educational work and
an ideological strug?gle among cadres to root out these deviations.
Our Party،¯s politics are characterized by love and trust and are benevolent politics.
They constitute the basic factor that defines our socialism،¯s advantages and
invincibility.
Thanks to the benevolent politics of the Party and the leader, our people enjoy a
most worthwhile and dignified life. Their noble socio?political integrity is enhanced
under our own style of socialist sys?tem, which is centred on the popular masses. It
is a true feature of our society that all its members form a large harmonious family.
They trust, love and help each other, and enjoy a worthwhile and happy life
together.
In our country, everyone regards and supports the leader as they would their own
father. They trust and follow the Party, regarding its embrace as that of their own
mother. The leader, the Party and the people form one socio-political organism, and
share the same des?tiny. The whole of society overflows with communist morality.
For instance, one devotes one،¯s own life without hesitation to save one،¯s
revolutionary comrade from danger, and young men and women become life
companions of honourably disabled soldiers and take warm care of orphans and old
people without support, as they would their own relations. This is a proud result of
the benevolent politics of our Party.
The vitality of the benevolent politics of our Party finds expres?sion not only in our
people،¯s noble spiritual and moral traits, but also in their upright and equitable
material and cultural life, which improves as the days go by. All our people are free

from worries about food, clothing and housing. They continue to learn throughout
their whole life and enjoy long lives in good health, thanks to free and compulsory
education and free medical care. In our country, the state provides stable jobs for all
able-bodied working people. It looks after the whole population under its
responsibility and even takes warm care of those who have temporarily lost the
ability to work, those without this ability and old people without support. Aged
rev?olutionaries and war veterans, honourably disabled soldiers and mer?itorious
people enjoy their worthwhile life under the state،¯s care, held in the people،¯s
high esteem and love.
The younger generation is basking in the great benefits of the Party،¯s benevolent
politics. They are successors to the revolution, and the future of our country and
nation. The future of the revolution and the destiny of the country and nation
depend on how they are brought up. Therefore, their upbringing cannot be the sole
responsi?bility of their parents. In capitalist society, where the future of the younger
generation depends on their parents،¯ purse, they cannot avoid falling victim to
social inequality and social evils. Due to the aggression and intervention of the
imperialists and the plunder of the exploiter class, many of the young generation
throughout the world lose their lives or are maimed by war, social conflict, disease
and hunger or they wander about the streets, committing crimes and degenerating.
By contrast, in our socialist society with its benevolent politics, the state brings up
all the younger generation. Our Party and state accord them the warmest love and
solicitude. In our country, they study to their hearts،¯ content under the best 11year universal compulsory education system, and are supplied with school uniforms
and school things by the state. Thanks to the warmest love and care of the Party and
the leader, the state and society, our younger genera?tion is growing up happily
without envying anyone.
All the popular policies enforced in our country today prove the superiority of our
own style of socialist system, which is centred on popular masses. These policies
emanate from the noble love of the Party and the leader for the people. Benevolent
politics is the tradi?tional method. Its historical root had already been created by the
great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung in the days of the anti-Japanese revolution and
was further deepened and developed by him as the revolution and construction
advanced.
The respected leader Comrade Kim Il Sung was the benevolent father of our people,
who cherished the warmest love for them. Under the motto, ،°The people are my
god،±, which he adopted when he was young, Comrade Kim Il Sung mixed with
people, shared weal and woe with them and devoted his all for them, throughout his
life. Because it held the respected Comrade Kim Il Sung, who was endowed with
the noble virtue of boundless love for the people, as its leader, our country could
record a brilliant history of genuine politics for the people, benevolent politics.
Our Party continues to carry forward the brilliant traditions of benevolent politics
established by the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung. Our Party،¯s benevolent
politics are politics of extensive love and trust; the Party loves and trusts people
from all areas of society, without discrimination. In this sense, we call our Party،¯s
benevolent politics all-embracing politics. They are politics of invari?able love and
trust. Our Party is responsible for everyone،¯s socio?political integrity and guides
this. Even when a man has committed an error, our Party does not put him in the
cold but re-educates him, to lead him onto the right track. It shows constant care for
him, so that he will exalt his socio-political integrity to the last.
The noble love and trust shown by our leader and Party for the people have
produced unfailing loyalty to the Party and the leader from the people. Our people
have been well-known since olden times as a diligent and courageous people with a
strong sense of justice, a noble sense of obligation and a high sense of decorum.
Our people،¯s fine traits now flourish and develop in every respect, based on new
spiritual and moral qualities. Our people are deeply grateful to the Party and the
leader for their benevolent politics and work heart and soul to repay the favour with
loyalty. Our people،¯s loyalty to the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung is shown on
a nobler plane today, after they suddenly lost their fatherly leader. It is our
people،¯s unshakable will to loyally uphold the respected Comrade Kim Il Sung
forever as the leader of our Party and revolution. Under the leadership of the Party,

our people are working with redoubled efforts to win fresh victories, true to the
behests of their fatherly leader Comrade Kim Il Sung. No other people are equipped
with such noble spiritual and moral qualities as ours. They are unfailingly loyal to
the Party and the leader, and work devotedly for their coun?try, society and the
collective. We take great pride in having such excellent people. For our Party to
have trained ours into such an excellent people is its great achievement and a
brilliant victory for its benevolent politics.
Our Party،¯s benevolent politics are the source of the single-heart?ed unity of the
leader, the Party and the people. The single-hearted unity of the leader, Party and
people, based on love and loyalty, is the most solid unity, and our own style of
socialism, rooted in this single-hearted unity, is ever-victorious.
People throughout the world express their great admiration for our socialism, saying
that it is the most ideal socialism. This is because our socialism is genuine socialism
centred on the popular masses, which fully applies the principles of love for and
trust in the people.
The reason why our own style of socialism, centred on the popu?lar masses, is an
invincible socialism which enjoys their full support and trust is that here, the
popular masses maintain their position and exercise their rights as the masters of the
state and society. They dis?charge their responsibilities, play their role as the
masters and lead a worthwhile and happy life in such a capacity.
Our Party will invariably and fully pursue genuine politics for the people,
benevolent politics which regards the popular masses, the masters of everything in
society, as supreme beings and bestows everlasting love and trust on them. Our
Party and people are faced with the heavy yet honourable task of carrying forward
and consum?mating through generations, the socialist cause of Juche which was
initiated and led by the great leader Comrade Kim Il Sung. As it has always won
victories in the past by believing in and relying on the people, so too in the future,
our Party will accomplish the socialist cause of Juche by believing in and relying on
them.
Man-centred socialism, socialism centred on the popular masses, is absolutely
scientific, and the most advantageous and powerful socialism. For its scientific
accuracy and truth, socialism is sure to be victorious.

Korean Friendship Association (K.F.A)
http://www.korea-dpr.com

